---
title: Built in UI Components
date: July 05, 2022
version: "1.00"
---

This template also supports a few ui components that I have designed, which you can directly use within markdown.

#### The Icon component

Internally it uses the [Iconify](https://fontawesome.com) icons library. You can copy the icon key and just pass it as a prop like this `:icon{name="ph:user-circle-duotone"}`, which results in rendering the icon :icon{name="ph:user-circle-duotone"}

**Examples**

- Fluent Icons
  :icon{name="fluent:alert-urgent-20-regular"} :icon{name="fluent:desktop-pulse-48-regular"}

- Hero Icons Solid
  :icon{name="heroicons-solid:academic-cap"} :icon{name="heroicons-solid:chart-bar"}

- Google Material Icons
  :icon{name="material-symbols:android"} :icon{name="material-symbols:brightness-4"}

#### The Alert component

You can also an alert component, which accepts an icon, title and description.

The alert component accepts three props, the icon(optional, defaults to the exclaimation icon), title and description.
```md
::alert
---
icon: fluent:error-circle-24-regular
title: This is alert with default variant colors.
description: This will pick up colors from your primary color set in the tailwind config file. You can use this to show some kind of message to your users.
---
::
```

::alert
---
icon: fluent:error-circle-24-regular
title: This is alert with default variant colors.
description: This will pick up colors from your primary color set in the tailwind config file. You can use this to show some kind of message to your users.
---
::

::alert
---
icon: ph:check-circle-duotone
title: This is a simple alert with variant set as `success`.
description: A simple green colored alert, with a different icon. 
variant: success
---
::

::alert
---
icon: fluent:fingerprint-24-regular
title: This is an alert with variant set to `danger`.
description: Something aweful has happened 
variant: danger
---
::
